# Dandelion
Dandelion has been designed and implemented as a UI development framework for Ambient Intelligence systems. It provides an im plementation of the TIAF (Thhreefold Interaction Abstraction Framework) abstraction levels as a distributed user interaction management system that uses model-driven engineering techniques to make the development of distributed physical user interfaces (DPUIs) easier and cheaper.

By using Dandelion, AmI developers are decoupled from the specific modalities, technologies and even physical location of the Interaction Resources (IRs) used to implement a particular DPUI. Developers can design and describe the UIs at the abstract level using the UsiXML language, and then implement the application UI control logic on top of the abstract concepts defined in the abstract UI. Dandelion uses a distributed user interaction controller to connect those abstract elements with the physical elements that perform the interaction with the user. This connection is managed by Dandelion itself, that performs the translation from the abstract concepts to the real interaction with the user. It does so by relying on a series of distributed proxy-like components that elevate any kind of device or software component to the status of an Interaction Resource (IR). They provide a common interface of interaction operations that is remotely accessible though a networking protocol called the Generic Interaction Protocol (GIP) [Varela et al., 2013b, Varela et al., 2013a]. Furthermore, in order to facilitate compatibility with a wide range of physical devices, Dandelion introduces a device abstraction technology called UniDA [Varela et al., 2011], which decouples Dandelion from the specific APIs of each device manufacturer. 
